25.1.2
======

Release date: 2025-03-03

## Version:

* Chart ver: 25.1.2

!!! note
    Release only contained charts changes. No binary changes.

## New Changes:

* Support for SecretStore/ClusterSecret store introduced for GCP
* Support for SecretStore introduced for Azure
* Secret Seeding : Refer to the following scripts to know about setting up secrets in an external store.
  * GCP : Setting up SecretManager, Enabling cluster properties and seeding keys
    * [https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation\_helper/gcp/infra\_setup/optional\_secret\_manager\_install.sh](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/gcp/infra_setup/optional_secret_manager_install.sh)
  * [https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation\_helper/gcp/install\_telm/setup\_secrets.sh](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/gcp/install_telm/setup_secrets.sh)
* Azure : Setting up KeyVault, Enabling cluster properties and seeding keys
  * [https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation\_helper/azure/install\_telm/setup\_secrets.sh](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/azure/install_telm/setup_secrets.sh)
  * [https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation\_helper/azure/infra\_setup/optional\_keyvault\_install.sh](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/azure/infra_setup/optional_keyvault_install.sh)

## Charts

* telmai-common-(gcp/azure) chart
  * telmai-config sub chart has been removed
  * Property secretType supports values as “internal” and “external”; Use value “internal” when the seeded secrets are stored in kubernetes; Use “external” when seeded secrets are in KeyVault (Azure) / SecretManager (GCP)
  * New property secretStoreKind added; This is applicable when secretType = “external” ;  The values for this can be “ClusterSecretStore” or “SecretStore” ; In case of “ClusterSecretStore” the configured secret store should be of type Cluster Secret store; In case of “SecretStore” the configured secret store should be of type Secret store. The default value for this is “ClusterSecretStore. Depending on the allowed configuration in your deployment, use appropriately.
  * For ExternalSecret objects that are configured, the kind value is picked from the \{{.Values.secretStoreKind\}}
  * New property telmai: deployment: environmentName added; The value for this should be the environment name; This should map to the property name which was created during seeding.
  * For ExternalSecret objects that are configured, the remote ref lookup has now changed from telmai-\<property name> to telmai-\{{.Values.telmai.deployment.environmentName\}}-\<propertyname>
* Following are the subcharts where the above properties are supported
  * azure-chart (available on azure)
  * elasticsearch-chart
  * gcp-chart (available on gcp)
  * kafka-chart
  * postgres-chart
  * segment-chart
  * sendgrid-chart
  * jira-chart
  * databricks-chart
  * Slack-chart
* For secrets that are seeded when the secretType is “internal”, additional checks has been added so that the helm template command does not fail due to lookup functions. In case of helm template, the value would be set to “not-found”;
