25.1.3
======

Release date: 2025-03-19

## Product Changes

* Queue created front of ElasticSearch to optimize load on ElasticSearch server – Enabled by default
* Add support for `is_null` in RulesDSL
* Out-of-box policy changes
  * EOL - Correctness drift policy
  * Renamed “Correctness Rules Violation” to “DQ rules violation”
* EOL profiling in investigator page
* Azure-specific:
  * Eventhub support
* Bug fixes
  * Handling empty lists for Snowflake
  * Alerts not shown for AVG metrics
  * Custom Metrics - Page infinitely loads on adding same metrics again

## Image and Chart Changes

### Cloud: GCP

**Version**

* Chart ver: 25.1.3
* Image ver : 25.1.3.83

**Chart changes**

* Support for SecretStore/ClusterSecret store introduced for GCP
* Secret Seeding: Refer to the following scripts to know about setting up secrets in an external store.
  * [Setting up SecretManager](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/gcp/infra_setup/optional_secret_manager_install.sh)
  * [Seeding keys ](https://bitbucket.org/telmai/telmai-public/src/main/installation_helper/gcp/install_telm/setup_secrets.sh)
* telmai-ms-gcp/values\_template.yaml
  * Tag renamed from "\<gcp-sa-tlm-dataproc-clientId>" to "\<gcp-sa-tlm-dataproc-email>"
* telmai-common-gcp chart
  * telmai-config sub chart has been removed
  * Property secretType supports values as “internal” and “external”; Use value “internal” when the seeded secrets are stored in kubernetes; Use “external” when seeded secrets are in SecretManager (GCP)
  * New property secretStoreKind added; This is applicable when secretType = “external” ;  The values for this can be “ClusterSecretStore” or “SecretStore” ; In case of “ClusterSecretStore” the configured secret store should be of type Cluster Secret store; In case of “SecretStore” the configured secret store should be of type Secret store. The default value for this is “ClusterSecretStore. Depending on the allowed configuration in your deployment, use appropriately.
  * For ExternalSecret objects that are configured, the kind value is picked from the \{{.Values.secretStoreKind\}}
  * New property telmai: deployment: environmentName added; The value for this should be the environment name; This should map to the property name which was created during seeding.
  * For ExternalSecret objects that are configured, the remote ref lookup has now changed from telmai-\<property name> to telmai-\{{.Values.telmai.deployment.environmentName\}}-\<propertyname>
  * Following are the subcharts where the above properties are supported
    * azure-chart (available on azure)
    * elasticsearch-chart
    * gcp-chart (available on gcp)
    * kafka-chart
    * postgres-chart
    * segment-chart
    * sendgrid-chart
    * jira-chart
    * databricks-chart
    * Slack-chart
* For secrets that are seeded when the secretType is “internal”, additional checks have been added so that the helm template command does not fail due to lookup functions. In case of helm template, the value would be set to “not-found”;

**Pub/Sub Changes**

New topic and subscription

|    |    |
|----|----|
| telmai\_es\_metrics | telmai\_es\_metrics\_sub\_metrics\_proxy |

### Cloud: Azure

**Version**

* Chart ver: 25.1.3
* Image ver : 25.1.3.79

**Secret Seeder Changes**

* Internally Managed Secrets - New file kafka-secret.yaml has been added to seed the jaas token for event hub authentication. Ensure that you download the new secrets.zip and run this script alone in case of existing deployments. Refer to the documentation of Event Hub on hot create the secret
* Externally Managed Secrets - New key telmai-`{{.Values.telmai.deployment.environmentName}}-kafka-jaasconfig`, needs to be seeded with the authentication key for the Event Hub in external secrets (Vault/ Secret Manager). Refer to the documentation of Event Hub on hot create the secret

**Chart Changes**

* Support for Services to be of type - ClusterIP instead of NodePort
* telmai-common-azure chart
  * kafka-chart
  * New property introduced kafka-chart:kafka:type; Default value for this is kafka; This needs to be changed to eventhub for cases where the event hub is the messaging system. No changes need to be made in case Kafka is the messaging system.

* telmai-ms-azure chart
  * The following sub charts have a new property kafka:type; Default value for this is native. This needs to be changed to eventhub for cases where the event hub is the messaging system. Please refer to the latest values\_tempalte.yaml file.
    * telmai-alert-monitor-chart
    * telmai-api-chart
    * telmai-backend-chart
    * telmai-data-cleaner-chart
    * telmai-metrics-dispatcher-chart
    * telmai-metrics-proxy-chart
    * telmai-scheduler-chart
    * telmai-search-chart
    * telmai-spark-controller-chart
    * telmai-job-monitor-chart
* Node-port based services are no longer provisioned. All the services are exposed as ClusterIP; \<chart-name>:setup:env:type:nodePortEnabled - is no longer supported. Please refer to the latest values\_tempalte.yaml file.

